[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in today's episode we're joined by Joe
do the general council at Magic Eden a
cross chain nft Marketplace in this
conversation we discussed Joe's
background in blockchain law and his
role in establishing the Precedence for
the Cayman da Foundation model how magic
Eden survived and thrived during the
most recent bare Market magic Eden's
focus on user acquisition and those
users needs navigating the tumultuous
regulatory waters for the past handful
of years the many reasons to be positive
on the US's new Pro crypto legislative
and Regulatory Outlook and so much more
just a reminder nothing said on this
podcast is a solicitation to buy or sell
any tokens and that the guest or host
might hold tokens discussed in any given
episode you can check out a disclaimer
on
www.newsday.com and if you enjoyed this
episode please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
don't forget to share with your friends
and family every rating review like and
comment helps us reach more people and
bring you more of your favorite guests
with all that said I really enjoyed
speaking with Joe and I hope you enjoy
the conversation too hey everyone
welcome to the smart economy podcast I
am psyched to have today's conversation
with Joe doll the general council at
Magic Eden and nft Marketplace that
supports a dozen blockchain networks how
you doing today Joe I'm doing great D
nice to be here yeah I'm really excited
to have you on um I know a lot of people
probably don't say this often but I
enjoy talking to lawyers because you
guys have a really interesting
perspective about about the reality of
the industry and you kind of probably
have your finger on the pulse for where
we're going more than others would like
to admit so I'm excited to have this
conversation though it might be sobering
uh but hopefully there's an opportunity
for excitement as well so before we kind
of like get to do the the get to know
you I just kind of want to get your
sense from like a broader 10,000 foot
perspective in the US we've seen a lot
of pro crypto narratives and moves at
the executive level since Trump's
Administration took office so since he
took office in the past three weeks what
are some of the highlights so far and
what are some of the things in 2025 that
builders in the US can look forward to
yeah this is a great kickoff question so
I mean you got to start with the
executive order that's key I think even
actually before that the appointment of
damid Sax's cryptar is is a great start
he understands the industry he gets it
I'm sure he had a heavy hand in drafting
the executive order but don't that that
executive order is huge I mean it talks
about like you know establishing a
regulatory framework which by the way
we've all been waiting for for years it
talks about stopping regulation by
enforcement which you saw like a week or
two later you saw the cftc the SEC and
David Sachs on the same day come out
with statement saying they're going to
stop regulation by enforcement which is
a huge win um you know it talks about
establishing not a cbdc but US dollar
stable coins which you know once once we
get a stable coin bill which Dylan I
think is the first thing we'll get in
2025 that's like the flood cases are
open because every major player every
major financial institution every Major
Market participant in in trafi will be
very easily able to sort of uh get
whatever license registration they need
to move cash on chain money market funds
on chain I mean that's trillions of
dollars of assets we always talk about
like when are people moving on chains
that's the Catalyst for it so I'm super
excited for that and of course the
really fun stuff the Strategic Reserve
so that's that's like p in the sky we're
excited about it but I'm actually more
excited about people getting onto like
into the onchain economy I think stable
coins is a big sort of like you know
Gateway for that so I've long said that
um the two killer use cases in crypto
are Bitcoin because it's a non-state
money that's peer-to-peer and stable
coins uh because people are actually
using stable coins demonstrably on chain
for the past few years and that's only
been growing um one of the concerns that
a lot of people have about crypto and
maybe you're seeing like an age divide
at the legislative level and at the
Congressional level is that um crypto
might compete or harm the US dollar but
the stablecoin kind of adoption might
flip that on its head so could you maybe
from your perspective share at the high
level how stable coins might increase
dollar dominance throughout the world as
we kind of adopt this next wave of of
money technology yeah turning on his
head is like you the words right out of
my mouth like we we were in a position
prior to this Administration where
stable coins could theoretically replace
the dollar as sort of the global means
for for transactions um you know oil
dollar Petra dollar all these kind of
things you know it's inefficient moving
cash right via wires right Swift Etc and
if there is a like a largely adopted
stable coin that can very much replace
the Dollar by prioritizing this the US
just it jumps ahead at Leap Frogs all
the competitors right China's working on
cbdc a couple people working on cbdcs um
but if the dollar which is like the
current means to do Global transactions
in Commerce is able just be on chain
then it's setting it itself up to be the
the uh the dollar or the currency for
the future so like by by by taking the
lead in stable coins what US is doing
it's it's cementing dollar dominance I
Me by pegging the future stable coin
right for the world to the dollar like
you know it's it's not Checkmate but
it's wow like we've got United States
dollar will basically reign supreme for
the next coming Generations because of
this move so really really for you know
great great foresight uh by by uh US
Congress sort of like prioritizing this
first cool I definitely want to talk
more about macro stuff at the US level
um when it comes to like uh Pro crypto
Regulatory and legislative actions um
and also what's going on in Magic Eden
but let's take a quick step back and
maybe just get a a little bit of your
background so you you've kind of got a
rich background in corporate and
business law can you just briefly walk
us down the path of how you got into law
and then maybe what your Genesis into
blockchain and crypto looked like from
what I'm guessing is around the Ico boom
era yeah that's yeah you nailed it we
were talking about uh some some old
products prior to the Pod sarting and
that's exactly right so I I was into
crypto you know early early on like 2013
or so but didn't really dive in didn't
like own a bunch or buy a bunch and then
when Bitcoin crashed I was like you know
this thing's kind of dead come 2016 and
it's like crusing over a thousand bucks
again I was like wow this thing is back
and ever since then late 2016 I've been
I've been locked in uh so I started my
legal career as a first year I like uh
was one of the few attorneys in New York
who was talking about crypto at these
like crypto meetups and some senior
partner was like you know I was begging
like we got to do a crypto practice we
got to do it you know like it's so
exciting he's like fine if you can bring
in client we'll do it so we brought like
5 10 clients the next day it's like all
these people need legal help um so I've
been doing you know been practicing law
with respect to the legal crypto
industry for eight years now um you know
while at a firm called figan West which
is sort of like the predominant crypto
legal firm in the country it's not sort
of it is um I launched you know 40 50
plus tokens I'm sort of credited with
coming up with the Cayman da Foundation
model you might be familiar with um so
and worked with a ton of big clients
coinbase
Kraken uh Yuga the punks openc magic
Eden you name it these are all former
clients in mine so um yeah happy to be
on the on the Pod and and love talking
crypto man this great stuff so when you
kind of uh got into Bitcoin in 2013 did
you did you kind of just grasp it
immediately or or did you look at it and
and write it off and then come back at
another time and after having like an
aha moment I think I saw like a YouTube
video uh it might have been like Andreas
or something and I was like wow this
sounds really cool and like Innovative
but I didn't really I don't know I just
kind of like that was cool I moved on to
something else I didn't give it the time
of day and I kind of paid attention to
the price a little bit but you know when
it when it dropped I I kind of just
walked away from it and then when it
came back in 2016 I was like wow this
thing is still here let me let me double
click here and and since then I've just
been once you go down that that rabbit
hole everyone knows you're you're you're
sucked in once you get it it just a
light bulb turns on you can't turn it
off 100% so um I think in crypto things
just accelerate so quickly and an
eight-year career in this space can feel
like a 24e career so how has the
industry's concerns and
considerations evolved from when you
first started uh practicing law in this
realm in 201617 through today yeah it's
it's a great question I mean we've gone
through these periods of like
existential crisis that things are okay
the existential crisis um so we've had
like an EB and flow I remember in 2013
we had the IRS Bitcoin guidance that
came out the the digital asset guidance
and it said like any transaction is a
taxable event which means that you
couldn't pay for your Starbucks with
Bitcoin you couldn't buy coffee with
Bitcoin without it being like a taxable
thing and that was like existential oh
this is never going to make it this tax
like this you know it's it's DOA you
know since then it's that that whole
framework has been like totally rolled
back right and like the tax uh folks are
kind of working on making things more
streamlined so you know we've had like
these existential times come up and I
think the Gary Gensler times were kind
of like this where you had this this
like really intense regulation by
enforcement regime and it wasn't just
Gary and the SEC there was other players
uh most notably the CFC are doing this
as well where there's this ambiguity
around how these digital assets are
regulated so rather than you know
provide no action letters to like say
like hey this is our purview as SEC this
is our area to regulate and we
established that by saying you're not in
trouble because you comply with our
rules in these ways he said actually
we'll say you are in trouble because you
violated our rules in these ways and
that will give us more ground to
regulate these assets so there's this
like land grab between different
agencies and all the industry was just
sort of caught in middle and we had like
you know arbitrary and capricious it's
this this this term right that yeah
you're resp people are aware like this
is only IL legal nerves thing that not
like everyone in crypto knows because
it's just like such such like a uh
like a headline right so SEC got hit
with that twice I mean they were going
after people in bad faith uh which is
really unfortunate because this is a a
country built on Innovation um so I
think that like we've seen these EV and
flows I think being like particularly
existential and then like much better
but this by far Dylan is the most
bullish sort of like regulatory legal
backdrop we've ever had I typically
don't like to talk about price because
it's a super volatile industry and you
know if you give Financial advice you're
just opening yourself up for opportunity
for ruin uh you can harm other people
but I do kind of want to talk maybe
about like sentiment and the best way to
capture sentiment is through price
action and so after Trump got elected we
saw Bitcoin kind of jump up at 40% in
volume or in price and after his
election we've kind of seen a decrease
in price like if it's we're currently um
uh doing this interview uh February 12th
so it's it's the beginning of February
there's all these kind of as you just
mentioned bullish signals that are
popping up from a regulatory and a
legislative Outlook but if you go on
crypto Twitter right now the sentiment
is just bad a lot of people are down the
the outlook for this industry is just
not good so where's the disconnect why
does uh like token movement of name your
favorite token going down why is that
happening when we have so many kind of
um winds that are starting to pick up
and in in our sales and push us forward
yeah so Dylan great Point let me start
by saying none of what I'm saying is you
know legal advice or financial advice
it's my own views that match Dean views
all these kind of things much love the
crypto Twitter right but crypto Twitter
as a person who's on it and enjoys it we
have the attention span of like a
goldfish right so like you know we might
be down for like three days and it's the
end of the world and then we're up for
24 hours and it's you know you know
everyone's no longer working at
McDonald's and his Lambos right so like
know crypto Twitter like I take a lot of
the sentiment with like a grain of salt
because it's just so Mercurial it's up
and down all over the place which makes
it fun but also isn't necessarily a good
signal like where we're going I think
the things that look at that we should
be sort of valuing looking at more
closely is like inflows to ibit or these
these ETFs which are just surging
absolutely surging um which is an
indicator of of institutional capital
and you know normally retail Capital
entering the market um you know
generally these these uh these sort of
like entries aren't meant to be
short-term trading right these are these
are positions being taken um I think you
also need to look at the regulatory
backdrop right we have uh an executive
order outstanding that says we're going
to have rules of the road within the
next six months that they're going to
least propose some that allow the
industry in the US at least to have
guidelines on what they need to do to
comply and and succeed and grow the
businesses and the products they're
working on which is great for the growth
but I mean look at just I mean we're
talking about a strat reserve for these
assets we're talking not at the federal
level but also like 23 States now and
you know there's there's been this you
know there's been some small countries
that have been really sort of innovative
in this space El Salvador um bin I
believe um a couple other are Bhutan
rather who have taken these strategic
reserves already um but by the US sort
of entering this in a very serious way
there's basically no reason why any G
G20 country shouldn't hold some Bitcoin
on it on its balance sheet on its
Federal you know in its Federal Bank um
we're seeing a lot of Middle East
countries that have been of sort of
covertly doing this for a while
everyone's kind of aware of it this big
like Open Secret but like this once you
have the game theory with Bitcoin has
always been once someone starts buying
it it creates demand for people at that
playing field to also buy it and then
that sort of invites people at a higher
playing field to also participate where
are the US government it doesn't get any
higher than that so this is I mean I I
hate to say this I don't want to jinx it
or anything but there's this concept of
like a super cycle of like you know
Bitcoin has these I know fine so no one
wants to jinx right don't say it don't
say it um I'm saying it DL I'm saying it
man like I mean how much more adoption
can you get the United States government
buying and holding Bitcoin like if
you're in after Uncle Sam you're
probably you know kind of late to the
party right to some extent you'll still
get I think in an inflationary
environment where we have a lot of money
printing happening we just had a 3% CPI
print today so like inflation is not
cooling down um we're not going to look
at any rate Cuts anytime soon but
inflation going be persistent we're
reshoring we're blowing out the federal
deficit these kind of this has always
been the Bitcoin thesis the denominator
right is always going to increase the
money supply will always increase
Bitcoin will always improve uh increase
in value that being said there's this
inflection point where everyone kind of
gets it and gets in and you have big
price jumps that will happen then and I
think that this this may be the cycle
world that happens I don't want to you
know don't want to jinx it but using
that as as the backdrop maybe uh we can
we can zoom back uh into like a vertical
within the blockchain space and then uh
for the latter half of the conversation
we can come back out to the higher level
view but Bitcoin is the overarching
trend that has governments and
corporations talking about blockchain
and cryptocurrency but you and I have
seen so many different verticals rise
and fall um and some have even persisted
over time um mainly like Dows defi nfts
now we're starting to see you know AI
agents coming on chain and the
Persistence of layer twos so um maybe we
can uh like zoom in a little bit further
into you and your experience when you
left working Law Office uh in the law
office the kind of like overarching uh
meta or the narrative at the time in
2021 was Dows metaverse and nfts these
were major buzzwords in web 3 so what
made you finally decide to take the leap
from working in in a law office and
going to work into uh web 3 specifically
and how did you choose to land at at
Magic Eden uh working at an nft
Marketplace yeah thanks D appreciate
this question the law for Maat Fenwick
the practice was entirely crypto some of
the best attorneys in the country and
one of the funnest practice groups I've
ever been in great clients great group
can't say enough good things you know
that being said at the time it was an
opportunity to get into the industry and
I happen to be looking at a couple
different clients and they're like hey
lawyers are really expensive do you want
to just come like help us out here and
like work on this stuff and I was like
yeah that's super exciting um so I knew
wanted to make a jump and you know I
think I had like like 63 clients or so
and I'd worked with most most of the
sort of products in the space releas a
bunch of them there's so many can't say
most but had worked with a number of
them uh and the magiking team was just
just lights out Dylan I mean like next
level and they were operating you know a
lot of times you walk in the room and
you're like oh I can have a conversation
with these guys I see where they're
going this is like wow I need to be
taking notes like they're just operating
in like another hemisphere uh and and
they proved it right they had wiped out
a handful of competitors in nft space
and Sal ecosystem um who were very
deeply entrenched they fought off open C
from coming in um you know they raised a
bunch of capital and I think that like
we're in a world where you'll have large
protocol developers um that kind of win
right I mean I look at like web one as a
great analogy so like htps didn't
necessarily have to be the protocol that
went out but it was right um and I think
that in this new iteration of the
internet where you have open source
software is the backbone of where we're
going which is I think
fantastic what a couple of these teams
are going to be responsible for for
launching these things red hat for
example laun Linux um and red hat was
required for like $40 billion um magic
to me felt like the team that had had
the knowledge the knowhow famili with
the users and just like the horsepower
these guys GR mind to be one of these
products that comes through this um so
this is like by far the best team i'
worked with in the industry and it was
just a no brander for me so maybe we can
just do a quick eli5 uh a lot of the
folks on that listen to this pod are
kind of web three natives crypto natives
but I also want my mom to Walk Away
Learning something new so um for like
the moms of the audience what is Magic
Eden how long has it been around and
what's kind of the primary purpose of an
nft Marketplace yeah it's a great call I
mean so magic we do we a place you can
buy and sell things and those can be
nfts which are you know digital art or
Collectibles or you know monkey pictures
or you know maybe even your your
driver's license could be an nft and you
want to buy it someday you'll do it on
Magic Eden California is working on
stuff like that by the way um we're also
place where you can buy and sell fbl you
want to buy Bitcoin you want to buy
salana you know ethereum whatever you
want to do we can buy and sell fbl
really well as well um so what we want
to try to do Dylan is bring everything
on chain like the internet right now is
not great it's suboptimal there's like
four or five websites that capture all
the traffic and everyone goes there and
they know that they're they're not
paying to use it because they are the
product right those those companies are
making their money billions and billions
of dollars off the back of the users
selling their data all these kind of
things and that's not an Internet that
like I want to live in and I don't think
that the world should be in it should be
an internet where value goes to people
using the internet where people are free
and their their information is protected
um and in crypto and in companies that
built uh tools to interact on chain so
when we say going from the regular
Internet to the crypto internet we say
it's going on chain uh so moving people
from this old internet of you know big
companies sort of like kind of leeching
off the users to users built up internet
means going on chain and what magicin
really wants to do our core mission is
to bring people people onchain so we
want to be a place for all onchain
assets whether it's fungible non-f
fungible you know special monkey
pictures or digital currencies whatever
it is we want to be the place where
people come to buy and sell those things
what's the major hurdle then for
onboarding my mom because me I just
connect my metamask to Magic Eden I've
played around in various different
ecosystems I've played around on
different daps on different interfaces
and it's intuitive for me to start using
magic Eden but like where are we in
terms of of adoption for getting
mainstream what's missing um what do we
need to do to make it easier for them
yeah it's a great question because there
is sort of this like hurdle right I mean
set up a a metamask wallet like remember
your seed phrase and like if you forget
all yourself gone and and you just need
that to even think about interacting
with a website like magic Eden so
there's this this all this user friction
it's just like not great so I think it
need to start with basically products
having their own first level user
comption right now if we spend a dollar
on marketing the value of that dollar
goes to the wallet goes to coinbase
first so people can get money on chain
and then it goes to the wallets so they
can move money from coinbase to the
wallet and then it goes to us so doity
for projects particularly you know
retail user facing projects where people
trade monkey pictures like ourselves
like it's really tough to bring people
directly on chain so to address this we
launched magiging wallet and it it's
been great we've had like $200 million
in volume which is kind of crazy and
it's it's still pretty new um but we
want to make that onchain experience
like moving people onchain experience as
seamless and as easy as possible and
it's tough Dyan because there's some
like security tradeoffs that happened so
for example it's best practi is to take
your you know your 24 or 12 character
seed trays write it down somewhere you
know maybe different locations lock it
up right and then you know that your
funds are SAU right um but man uh it's
really difficult for new users so there
might be a world where they sign on just
like you sign into your Google account
with like a password and a backup phrase
and if they choose to take an extra step
and be more sort of security conscious
and and remove their their seed phrase
they can do that we'll provide that
optionality but the first step of sign
on should be as easy as like your your
finger your fingerprint on your phone so
we're working on things like that cool
this this next question is kind of near
and dear to my heart because before we
hit record I told you that uh I got my
started in the Neo ecosystem and I very
much came into Neo during the Bull Run
of 2017 when icos were crazy and there
were only like four chains that could
handle tokenization and crypto kitties
clogged ethereum so it was like Neo
uh maybe another chain or two and so
when I came to working in blockchain and
and started working in the Neo ecosystem
this was the hottest ecosystem it was a
top 10 blockchain project but as bull
markets come and go we saw the desire
for launching tokens in this ecosystem
Wayne and if you just like look at the
price chart of Neo you can see that uh
it there hasn't necessarily been um a
lot of user retention over the years so
um what is so many people come into a
community during a bull run and then
it's really the bare Market that keeps
the community members around and you see
who's willing to stick through it
through thick and thin and without
beating around the bush nfts were kind
of one of those major craze topics in
2021 um though they've still been able
to retain trading volume I mean um I
think it was something like $8.7 billion
in 23 $8.4 billion in volume in 24 so
clearly this is not an asset class that
has gone away but it did it does not
have that kind of like Cinderella
darling moment like it did in 2021 so
over the past three four years um what
have been the lessons learned that magic
Eden has extracted from the community
members that were willing to stick
around through thick and thin what are
some of the things that that you and
your team have learned that have really
solidified your desire to keep working
in the nft realm yeah this is great so
first off we love nfts we're actually
super bullish in nfts uh and just a
little little tip of tip of the hat for
ourselves we are now by far the number
one in users uh and revenue for enties
of all marketplaces um and we don't
really measure volume because some
marketplaces kind of let a lot of there
is suspect volume go through so we look
at users and revenue as a key sort of
metrics we're number one which is great
and and you know Testament to some the
other teams out there Open Seas such a
goat and has been around for a long time
and you know a lot of respect for for
them what they built but like it's nice
to unseat them for sure and you know
what we're we're we're committed to nfts
um you know there's still parts of the
the ethereum market particularly where
um you know open C and blur have market
share and we w we want to come for that
right like we think nfcs are bullish
long term and we're not we're not
walking away from it it might be monkey
pictures now but in the long term it can
be anything from long pictures to bond
tranches to isas derivative instruments
these are $40 trillion doll asset
classes so we like nfts we like being
like the top dog nfts if we can be we're
we think we're there now we want to sort
of like solidify that position but I
mean to get to your deeper question of
like there's a lot of I mean crypto is
the most cical industry in the world and
there's a lot of ShakeOut and a lot of
volatility I mean the biggest takeaways
that we've learned is like you really
got to focus on on two things your users
first and foremost they're the ones that
made you the ones that took you to where
you are they're they're the reason for
your success and one of our think I
think one of our biggest key
differentiators between some of our nft
competitors is that we really really
focus on on user user Services taking
care of our users like our Ops teams
like 24/7 they're happy to help we are
constantly looking at tweets of like
like users like oh we should fix this
thing we should make this better like we
spend maybe way too much time on that to
be honest but we're always trying to
improve and we're always like we really
cherish and value user feedback um and I
think that's very important if you want
to like stay on top if user asking for
things like we want token trading as
well then we're providing that now and
like as I mentioned before we have like
a lot of volume in token trading and
we're we're happy to sort of like
diversify the second thing Dylan is
really culture you can have all the
plans in the world but if your culture
isn't there you're not going be able to
execute so we think culture eats
strategy for breakfast um so we've
really spent a lot of time really
focusing up Shoring up our culture
internally the idea being that there's
going to be a lot of deviations here but
if our culture is done well we run a
business well like it's profitable um we
employ people in a manner that like
allows them to grow and allows them to
contribute to the business in a way that
like reflects the market so we hire
people that actually use the products
that are part of crypto Twitter and all
these things we're going to be in a
position to Pivot as needed and to come
out of whatever happens to web 3 to be
one of the leading projects you know
there was thousands of Internet projects
right that all had their own
marketplaces but Amazon made it out of
it because they had the best culture and
they had the best business sense and
like that kind of Playbook we don't want
to be Amazon right there's a lot of
issues with sort of like this top- down
approach we be you know driving valuee
uh value from the bottom up and that's
part of the token I think um but you
know that's there's a lot of inspiration
there like how to operate a business
yeah and and so what is the kind of like
employee count like at Magic Eden um did
you guys have to go through the similar
sort of cut the fat in 2022 and then
start rebuilding and and growing your
team from there and what's kind of like
the state of the team that's that's
operating magic Eden right now yeah a
one of the toughest times in the company
was actually uh sort of a a layoff that
occurred back in 2022 this is when a lot
of companies were doing this like Disney
was doing it and it was just kind of
happening and and D not like not many
people know this but magicon was the
fastest unicorn in silen Valley history
we had a 1.6 billion valuation like
seven months after founding um and with
that we grew from like a 20 30 person
team to like 150 real quick and we you
know when we kind of caught our breath
in 2022 realized like wow like we we
probably over hired and we didn't have
good systems in place and good culture
in place um for like you know
appropriate hiring so we had to do a
reduction Force I think we La off like
22% of the company or so and we really
spent a lot of focusing on like our
philosophy around hiring you know our
hiring process and really just kind of
iterating on it and making it better
more ReSound and you know I think that
that's the these kind of processes and
culture building is what I was kind of
mentioned before these are key to
building a solid company um now we're
we're close to 200 people which is Big
to be honest but you know we we have a
lot of Ambitions and we have a lot of
things built so good times what are sort
of the events that your team goes to is
it nft specific conferences and and
workshops and and meetups or is it more
blockchain crypto specific it's a bit of
everything um you know we have a a US
company and a non- US company the US
company goes the US events non- us
company goes non US events we try to
keep those things kind of separated
where we can but it it's a broad range
St because we have users that are you
know retail so it's a lot of like retail
facing events nftc stuff like that but
we're also protocol developers right I
mean on both the salana side uh and on
the Bitcoin side so like we we came up
with partially signed Bitcoin
transactions which is like a pretty cool
protocol that we open source and you
plan on developing a lot more of that so
you know any sort of conference whether
it's it's Dev facing or it's retail
facing you you'll find magic FS there so
I think I prepping myself to get a
bullish response but as I mentioned
earlier nfts sales last year had their
second best month in December quarter 4
just saw an uptick in general in nft
sales so I think um despite the fact
that we're in un shaky territory from a
token holders perspective about the
Outlook of just insert cryptocoin price
here are are nfts back yeah it's tough I
mean the meta has certainly shifted to
mem coins I think but I mean we didn't
have a fful trading business till the
last couple months of of 2024 but Dyan
we had a most profitable year of the
company's history in 2024 almost
entirely off the back of nfts we made
this about $73 million in profit and
that's mostly driven by nfts and
efficiencies on the company side so you
know nfts aren't going anywhere yeah
they're definitely like the line's being
shared for sure with with mem coins and
mcoins are like definitely a dominant
position right now but nfts have a place
to stay and I think that like what nft
is today will evolve right like right
now it's some onup things but in the
future it's everything
from look at the world around you the
things that are fungible are like
currencies like certain commodities
everything else is non-arable is unique
so if our digital footprint reflects
that and right now it does in the non-
onchain world with like your Instagrams
whatever all those things are unique
photos media audio all that this is
where nfts are going gaming right um so
even if revenues do grind down nfts
which we are seeing we we definitely
want to stay sort of a dominant player
in the space I think uh we can make an
argument for the mcoin narrative being
so Forefront and meta right now uh as a
direct result of Gary gendler and the
SEC and kind of how they enabled uh
traders in the US to be able to access
certain types of blockchain and crypto
projects but we can talk about that in a
minute when we kind of like zoom out and
start talking about Regulatory and
legislative stuff um I just want to
maybe pick your brain a little bit about
the quality of projects nft projects
launching today versus like the blue
chips of last cycle and those blue chips
might be like py penguins um isuki uh
Crypt punks uh
BC um these are kind of like the name
brands that have been able to survive
the past three years so what do like
today's the prospect of today's Blue
Chips look like as compared to those
that came about in 2021 yeah it's I mean
some of these 2021 projects are sort of
just like Timeless like punks are
museums now like these are like the
Bitcoins of nse's and they have sort of
this like historical significance that
new products are going to have a hard
time capturing because they're new right
um but what we've seen it kind of
reminds me of the mean coin phase to
some extent I mean 2021 you had these
products launching all the time and
sometimes teams had you know plans and
like uh products associated with the the
nfts and you know cool stuff going on
but a lot of times they didn't there
wasn't a lot of substance there and I
think the big sh make out following like
the 2021 nft so boom um has been to you
know current n nft projects have they
have plans they have a video game they
have some sort of like culture thing
going on where they're like selling cool
clothes or you know whatever it is they
have a community they're trying to
inspire with these things um so I think
there's been a lot of learning in the
industry you have a lot more it's higher
quality products that are being launched
in the nft world which is which is
exciting frankly the thing that kind of
got me bought into the vision of nfts
wasn't necessarily like the monkey on
chain or the 16bit image but it was more
like you can own in-game items or you
can be denoted as a member of like a
social club um one of like the killer
use cases that I thought would have just
sent nfts to just the absolute Moon
would be like Taylor Swift creating a
club where if you owned one of Taylor
Swift's nfts you could go meet up with
her before or after a concert in in one
of the Cities she's going on tour and so
I think that that the potential use
cases for nfts are just like so killer
uh maybe we lost that kind of messaging
because it's easy for people to throw
the baby out with the bathwater and you
can just write off the crypto currency
and blockchain in general as a scam
until of course Bitcoin passes alltime
highs and then all of our friends are
calling to ask us if now's a good time
to get in but uh that's neither here nor
there uh the underlying opportunity that
nfts can offer for have remained
unchanged are there any new kind of
innovations that have emerged between
2021 and now that can add to those sort
of real world use cases that um an nft
can can offer to a holder you know I'm
sure there are but I think that what's
even more important to highlight is that
you're seeing some of these initial like
theoretical use cases actually happening
you know a a lot of credit to um
president Trump's uh campaign team they
launched these
nfts and these nfts gave access to meet
him at marago and he did that uh and
that was like such an Innovative thing
it's it's this Taylor Swift concept idea
that's been done now by the city
president of the United States and which
is which is just like wild to say out
loud to be totally
honest um but I think that you know we
saw Peak nfts 2021 we saw a lot of like
uh large Brands coming in like we so we
we did deals with um and helped launch
nfts with
inbev um with Bugatti and like a bunch
of different like you know major car
brands and stuff Aston Martin things
like that um and you had all these Major
Brands like poking their feet in and
checking this stuff out and it feels
very much like early internet where
there's all this theoretical you know
potential for new products new
experiences new new economies
essentially to spring up and like on an
online fashion versus non-chain fashion
um and companies were like flirting with
it they were like testing things out
small capacities but there wasn't really
a true push to to move things online in
the early internet days and then
something
switched and suddenly every company had
to be majorly involved with the internet
and I think we're we're kind of just
waiting for the switch to that point I
think that having these use cases be
refined uh by people like Trump's team
right that's a good example is is
helpful and Progressive but like it's
going to be really excited to see what
this like Catalyst would be and honestly
Dylan I think it's going to be be a game
you know crypto games there's a handful
cou games that are pretty fun and their
assets are on chain and like it's going
to be really really cool and you can
take your sword for one game and trade
it for you know a wand or whatever from
like another game that's gonna be that's
gonna be amazing it's GNA be way better
user experience it's going to open up an
entire new world of onchain economies
where you have game assets you know
going going nuts like look at like csgo
skins familiar with this at all yes Mill
they sell for millions of dollars and
it's all like trust me bro I'll send you
this like thing and you send me some
cash and you know that should be on
chain um so I'm really excited for
gaming actually I think it's some time
to take but I think that'll be the
callus that gets people on chain yeah I
mean is in gaming and and ingame items
sort of the whole thing that spurred
ethereum to begin with when vitalic lost
his super rare sword on on wow is that
really what happened I didn't know that
yeah he uh either his sword removed uh
by by the wow administrators or it lost
its ability to do what it was supposed
to do and that was kind of the origin of
ethereum I should be able to own this
thing um and nobody should be able to
take it from me because I worked my ass
off to get this or I spent a lot of
money to get this and I should be able
to hold it for as long as I hold it and
so that was kind of the inspiration or
the aha moment that vitalic had for
smart contract functionality and and
kind of like the the Genesis of what
ethereum would be um and so maybe as we
kind of like shift into talking about a
specific blockchain magic Eden does
support 12 different networks and so I'm
curious what have been some insights
that you've had during your tenure at
the marketplace as to the different
Market cycles that nft projects might
have on a per chain basis we saw like
ordinals really drive nft volume when
they came out uh what was it early last
year or maybe two years ago so do you
kind of see these waves and activity on
a blockchain network basis um or am I
just kind of like building a hypothesis
that isn't there I think there's
something there right I mean whenever
you have new chains come online you're
gonna have a flush Like A Rush of
activity a flurry of activity um and
this is partially driven by like chain
teams giving grants right to get people
on chain it's partially driven by just
being blue ocean and like they're not
being uh sort of like a blue chip nft
associated with that chain yes who every
wants Russian sure to be that so between
the opportunity and grants you have a
lot of onchain activity that happens
with new chains like early on and you
know our thesis is that we we want to be
there because if it's really hard to be
forward-looking and like be predictive
in this industry because it's so Dynamic
it's so cyclical so we don't want to
miss a chain that that makes it and if
you're there early you can also capture
value even if the chain doesn't sort of
make it long term um so it's I think
it's it's okay to look at things like
that Bitcoin is a really good case study
though Bitcoin is it's the it's the sort
of the Big Daddy chain right it's the
the original chain truly it's the
original blockchain um and our feas
there was early on I think we created
the runes Marketplace like two months
after um they were invented like oral
were invented not runs Marketplace the
's marketplace and so we were super
early and our conviction was that you
know this is a chain that doesn't have
the other things there's no like it's
new in the sense that you now have nfts
and you know ordinals runes on it so you
can sort of be a blue chip but there's
not like grants going out right which is
sort of a big Catalyst like why be
bullish and the idea was that if if we
think that Bitcoin will be around and we
think nfts will be around or mem coins
pick use case right then it makes sense
to have a presence on Bitcoin in these
in these capacities in these vertical
and that was our bet and and you know
initially there was some volume when it
was new but then it was kind of quiet
for a while then a year later it just
exploded so it really showed us that you
know we can't actually predict what's
going to happen but by setting ourselves
up for Success sort of like putting
ourselves in strategic positions we can
hope to capture upside when it does
emerge do you have kind of a Playbook or
a set of guidelines or metrics that you
use to evaluate new blockchain
ecosystems as as they come about because
um there's hundreds now and you know
even like this past week like bar chain
just launched and and the move ecosystem
is really starting to take off so it's
got to be impossible to sift through all
of these with um even though there's 200
people working at Magic Eed and you know
you don't have like 200 researchers
there's there's only so much capacity
for a certain type of technical
understanding uh that an individual
might have to be able to sift through
these blockchains and whatnot so what's
the sort of like higher level process
for reviewing blockchains as they come
about and what how does magic Eden
choose which networks to integrate
support for yeah that's tough I mean our
business Team Works a little bit closer
on that end at a high level we look at a
handful of things sort of uh anticipated
on on chain users uh we talk to the
teams and we kind of get a good gauge of
like how bullish or bearish the team is
to be honest look at big Partnerships
they may have you know whether or not
they have sort of the core building BLX
of an ecosystem a DEX and nfts setup all
these kind of things and those if those
exist if the hype's there right we also
look at like hype crypto Twitter
activity all these kind of things um you
know who their backers are If the
product is BC funded I know VCS are kind
of like a third rail people don't like
BCS in crypto and that's fine they can
be very value attractive right like I'm
nothing against that Viewpoint um but
they can also be very indicative of like
uh not maybe not very indicative but
they can be indicative of a product that
uh will do well right if some some VCS
say like hey there there's a a shot this
person does well that can be an
indicator that you know they actually
will but like I said it's like one of
many many things it's really around like
what kind of ecosystem do they have
drumming up and how hyped for it is the
community I mean are people psyched
about this um these are the kind of the
main sort of intangible things that we
try to measure and that can be tough but
these are the kind of things we look at
cool so I want to spend the last 15
minutes or so of our time talking about
just Regulatory and legislative Outlook
there's a lot of interesting things uh
good and bad happening in the broader
blockchain space in the US which
definitely impacts the world uh whether
we want to like it or admit it or not um
so maybe to like kick off this portion
of the conversation and I'm not asking
you to like dance on any Graves but open
SE has kind of been the lightning rod
for um for regulatory actions so maybe
we can just start a little bit with how
did the wells notice that got sent to
openc kind of impact uh your outlook on
Magic Eden and what did that really do
for the way that you guys um choose to
operate within and outside the US you
know it actually didn't didn't really
impact how we choose to operate because
you know people like to say cloaky like
oh crypto is the wild west there's no
regulations we view compliance with
regulatory structure much differently um
we flip it on its head we say because
there's no directly on point regul
ations we must assume that all apply and
we have to comply with all of them which
is a mess CU you're looking at you know
everything through bank secrecy act to
tax to Securities to Commodities to
Consumer Protection stuff to I mean
there's just a host of regimes that you
have to comply with as much as possible
which creates a lot of legal work so we
are already in a a position of sort of
philosophically where we thought that
the company should be as compliant as
possible with as many regimes that could
be directly applicable to its products
which means as basically as compliant as
you can possibly be the problem with the
prior Administration is that there was
very much so a moving goalpost um and
there was ambiguity um and this idea
that you could like come in and register
didn't really make any sense to us um
because like who who's going to be
responsible for disclosures and it's
open source software um like you know
there's just like a lot of like Square
pegs and round holes that didn't really
fit so the idea was is to really
understand all these regimes and sort of
the policy uh imperatives that underline
like underpin them and try to comply
with those as much as possible and good
faith as possible so when we saw the you
know the Open Sea Wells Notice come down
it wasn't a big surprise uh we knew that
sort of a number of people in the
industry were being Target on stuff um
so like it wasn't so surprising thing it
didn't really change how we approached
stuff because we took a very very
conservative riskof approach we always
have so that's at the kind of
marketplace level which is probably the
most um relate relatable to to Magic
Eden's Outlook but what about with like
projects we saw like Stoner cats have to
deal with the SEC um they had to pay a
fine um sad day man and uh one of his uh
uh colleagues are suing the SEC so what
are the sort of um processes for keeping
a finger on the pulse for nft projects
and people associated with nft projects
that might be dealing with the SC or
might be going through litigation how do
those sort of actions and kind of
outcomes impact how you look on
regulatory kind of perspectives from the
magic Eden level so the history here I
think is helpful the SEC just we'll pick
on them for now but they had this
strategy where they would basically go
after and started in funga bles where
they picked a couple
tokens um and they got settlements they
picked tokens that didn't have strong
teams or any teams at all um had very
little funding and they basically said
like well we'll put you out of business
that you settle right now in the
settlement we want to do things like say
your
security and then once they had a couple
of those which set up good precedent
they went after small exchanges
exchanges that like weren't doing well
we're like you know circling bankruptcy
and they said Hey listen unless you shut
everything down and admit your
Securities Exchange um right VI the
settlements we going to like create a
very bad time for y'all and they
basically you know put the thumb on
these very small players and got the S
and say what did set these precedents so
once you set the precedent on the
underlying which is the particular token
then you do it on the marketplace now
you tee up a broadside action against
coinbase Kraken binance and they did
exactly that and they said look we have
these precedents now these aren't
binding because a court didn't sanction
these things these are just settlements
um but they it gives them sort of
Firepower to say we think you're wrong
and this is why and look at all these
you know settlements we have to back the
so we've been watching that for a while
right I think every in the industry was
and they started seeing a repeating
pattern happen in in FTS so Stoner cats
impact Theory uh fly fish Club cyber
Kongs all these kind of well cyber Kongs
UK I guess but all these different
companies just had the SC come after
them and get these early layup
settlements to establish a precedent and
then from there it's like okay now
they're start going after exchanges and
we're just you know open C announces a
well Wells notice
so we saw the exact same Playbook kind
of play out so I forget the initial part
of your question but that's some extra
his history for context no I appreciate
that and um I also forgot the initial
part of my question but we'll use this
to to Parlay into another subject matter
that I wanted to talk about which is
coin bases cases and I really appreciate
the path that you laid out for going
after smaller projects then weaker
exchanges and then boom you can you can
slap something on a larger exchange by
claiming precedence so um the coinbase
is or coinbase is currently winning law
case uh law battles left and right right
now um and they're currently fighting
the SEC in court so how did the win from
January kind of maybe hamper the sec's
approach a and then B had gendler still
been in office would coinbase still kind
of have a Fighting Chance yeah this is
so there's a couple of coinbase actions
going on one of which got us in
arbitrary and capricious language which
is a big win for poger wall the team
over there what that what that one was
is coinbase had Bas said hey SC we want
directions here from you we want
instructions and they got just dead
silence you know they SC was you know
allegedly SC was not working with them
in any capacity they're rather like
begging for guidance so they sued them
asking for rule making and the court
found that by the SEC denying them rule
making denying them engagement was done
in an arbitrary and capricious manner so
that's a big win um the other more
important win is the sec's case against
coinbase generally so they were alleging
that coinbase and basically all its
products violated the Securities laws in
one manner or the another um and the
result of that would basically be
shutting down the company I mean this is
existential for coinbase which is just
outrageous it's a great American company
it employs a ton of people uh it's sort
of setting up the country to be sort of
at the lead for this new capital markets
uh that's going to come sort of come
around the future they try to just sync
that is just wild um from a policy
perspective um they could do many other
things like do a no action letter work
with them to provide guidance in Kus was
you know it seems to be very open to
these kind of things in the FC seems to
be seems like it was very much not work
into working with them um hence the
other case we talked about but what
happened was a lot of the a couple
things got tossed out like their wallet
got totally tossed the FC claims against
corit wallet got tossed out entirely um
because it just there was just nothing
there but a lot of the other claims uh
really turn on whether or not the
underlying assets are uh Securities
under the Howe test and investment
contract specifically under the how test
and um in the southern dist New York
which is where most of these cases are
brought there's actually an internal
District split so sometimes all
different parts of the country like one
section of the country like Wyoming Etc
and one section of the country in New
York that come to different agreements
and what the sessions of the country
think and that's okay and and sometimes
it goes to the Supreme Court and they'll
kind of made make a decision on it it's
called a circuit split this was a
district split so the same circuit court
of appeal circuit you had the same court
sou New York have differ opinions on
whether or not the underlying assets or
Securities um I think it was terraform
and coinbase that basically took
opposite sides here and uh this this
permitted a what's called interlocutory
appeal which is it's like hey the case
is normally you appeal a case once it's
done you say okay the case is done we
didn't like XYZ that came from it we're
going to repeal them all at once and
inator appeals like a special thing and
it says we're not even close to the
being dumb with this case but we think
this one issue so important to the case
and we think that they got it wrong in
such a major way that we want to appeal
just a specific issue and it's important
enough that it should be decided upon it
will impact other cases so that's what's
happening here and the issue is whether
or not these tokens are securities um so
like that's them getting that up for
appeal is going to be huge win and I
think that the change to the SEC could
really result in getting a win here and
that's just that's fa gates for the
whole industry if anybody was on crypto
Twitter for the past couple years and
read like Nick Carter's writings there
was the emergence of these kind of and
for lack of better terms these these
shadow entities at the federal level who
were purposefully it seemed going after
crypto as an industry blockchain as an
industry crypto as an asset class and
making it hard for businesses that work
in web 3 to kind of integrate into
traditional rails uh many such companies
weren't able to get bank accounts my
lawyer and any other lawyer in the
blockchain space can talk probably from
an hour plus about the clients they've
lost going offshore because they didn't
want to deal with things in the US so at
a certain level it it stops being a
conspiracy and and it starts being
something that's true so another thing
that coinbase has recently gone through
in the past month is these foyer
requests at the FDIC and I think earlier
this week or maybe even last week the
transcripts from one of the the judges
in the FDIC came out and he was
basically livid at how the FDIC was
limiting the information from the Foya
that was being given to coinbase so was
there like uh was there an operation
choke point 2.0 are were we being kind
of
conspiratorial or is and I and I really
hate to point blame at a previous
administration wide swath but like was
there a concentrated top- down level
effort at snuffing us out is and and are
these kind of like court cases
particularly with the FDIC highlighting
how some of this there might have been
truth in some of these conspiracy
theories yeah Dylan so let me first off
let let me give you something an
anecdotally when I was at the law firm
and we had so many clients in the space
right hundreds of them frankly in our
group we saw this happening right we saw
major banking issues for frankly some
products they do things like you know
maybe they transfer funds around or
whatever and those things like yeah it
makes sense to have some like banking
hurdles other things are super innocuous
basic software development right like
has nothing to do with like money
transmit nothing none of these sort of
like issues that would be raised in set
a bank account um also get shut down
also have issues um and it was just such
a huge pain so just just anecdotally
I've seen a lot of this but definitively
we now have full evidence that this is
this is real right there sort of like
there's this idea of almost like
gaslighting of like oh man are this
being too conspiratorial like is this
really happening or is are these
companies just not making it like you
know what's happening here but that
that's not the case I mean Congressman
french hill which is appointed to the
house Financial Services committee chair
uh and one of the things that he sort of
ran on when he was sort of being
considered for this position was
investigating CH Point 2.0
and he's committed to that and he's
already sort of taken a lot of steps
there and as far as these FDIC uh
initiatives that are coming out we had
these pause papers we released um so 23
pause papers were sent to all the
potentially reg regulated Banks and more
presumably um and what they said is like
we strongly encourage you to not Bank
crypto clients essentially 23 times
Federal governments told Banks like hey
you better not Bank these people that's
aggressive
right that's like a Veiled Threat in a
major way um so this is this is very
real and we're already starting to see
that's part of the executive order the
executive order specifically calls out
joke Point 2.0 um as something that it
needs to be investigated which is is
very much welcomed um we're starting to
see Banks walk walk this back publicly
so a couple banks have made statements
around like we have always you know been
champions of like free and accessible
banking so like that's that's tell me
they're scared and Banks man you know
they they only got themselves in mind so
like I think that if if given the
opportunity they'll they'll turn on the
FDIC or whomever sort of sent them these
things very very quickly I think we'll
get down to the bomb of this very very
soon but yeah no it was real it was very
real a few minutes left and so we have a
lot of kind of highlevel positive things
happening in the US right now we're
starting to see new cryptocurrencies uh
ETFs being put forth like Doge salana
we're starting to hear potentially um
staking allowed in
EFS uh we're starting to see uh
potential proc crypto um cftc and SEC
chairs uh we had this executive order
that talked about a working group that's
going to be happening so I think maybe
more broadly what are the the realistic
thing of course the BSR that we talked
about earlier stable coin legislation
fit 21 potentially what are the things
that realistically we should be focusing
on as an industry and really um put more
importance and more press towards that
will have a more positive impact on us
like sure the BSR would be great um I
think many can make an argument that the
United States government won't go out
and buy our bags um so maybe that's not
necessarily the highest on the list but
of all the things I just mentioned what
are like the things we should really be
keeping an eye on yeah I think it's
first and foremost stable coin bill you
know once you have the rules the road
established for that so that things like
you know large Banks can start issuing
their own stable coins or moving money
Market funds on on chain this is really
opening the floodgates for people to
come on chain and people being the cash
Market um which is trillions of dollars
globally um once that happens sky the
limit because once your cash is on chain
this sort of Fiat onboarding problem
goes away and it becomes very very easy
to sort of the for the rest of the
onchain economy to prosper so I think
stable coins is critical for US dollar
dominance which is very important and
it's also critical for the industry sort
of becoming sort of the four taking over
web too um so I think that's that's key
the next big thing is definitely going
to be a market structure Bill uh because
once you have that in play there's so
many I mean America is so fortunate to
have really it is Ground Zero for crypto
Innovation um right and I think that
starts with Bitcoin and and it's just
carried on from there and it's it's the
future of of capital markets uh truly is
I I believe and and Beyond a future of
sort of like consumer retail internet as
well and to have so many talented
builders in the United States and by the
way many many have fled but to have so
many in the United States is such a
competitive advantage and if we get a
market structure bill that says these
are the rules of Road this is how you
can comply that's going to open up the
doorway for a new age in sort of
American capitalism as as companies come
in products come in and they launch
these these tokens these protocols and
hopefully the bill is done in the
structure in such a way that uh
promoting that that incentivizes the
development and launching of Open Source
protocols free open source software
that's going to create a global good and
it will really put America and all the
innovators here in poll position to sort
of lead the the future here cool well
Joe I think I got through two-thirds of
my question list for you um so those are
always signs of a good interview um our
time is up and if anybody is interested
in reaching out to you or learning more
about the work that you're doing at
Magic Eden What's the best way that they
can get in contact with you yeah you can
check me out on Twitter I'm at Shoe dog
the first o is zero um and please check
out the magic magicin handles uh and the
magiking website were a fun place to
hang out awesome well I appreciate the
time you shared and and hearing your
insights into uh how nft survived where
they're going and your outlooks on uh
Pro crypto legislation and regulation
here in the states and hopefully the the
more positive impacts abroad thanks D
really appreciate this has been great
cheers thank you so much for tuning in
to the smart economy podcast to stay in
the loop with all our latest episodes
and insights head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all of our video content if
you enjoyed today's discussion please
consider showing your support by liking
commenting and reviewing this episode on
your favorite podcasting platform your
feedback helps us reach more listeners
and brings even better content your way
we'd also love to hear from you so
please drop a comment on Spotify or
YouTube to share what topics you'd like
us to cover or who you'd like to see as
our next guest and if you or someone you
know would make a great guest please
reach out we're always looking for fresh
voices and New Perspectives and for our
Neo token holders out there please
consider voting for Neo news today as
your Council representative we've
proudly been serving the Neo ecosystem
since
2017 we'll continue to do so by putting
portions of our Council rewards directly
back into the ecosystem growth
initiatives so once again thank you for
listening and we can't wait to catch up
with you next time
[Applause]